Israel's military says it has killed a
senior Hamas Commander Adel mama in an
overnight strike in central Gaza the BBC
has not been able to verify the Israel
Defense Force claim that he led an
attack on a kibuts in southern Israel on
the 7th of October in Israel the New
Year began with air raid sirens in Tel
Aviv and other areas after Hamas
launched more rockets and there was no
letup in the air strikes hitting Gaza
with at least 24 people killed but
Israeli tanks have pulled out of some
parts of Gaza City ahead of a planned
troop ruction our Middle East
correspondent Yulan Nell is in Jerusalem
she gave us more details about last
night's Hamas rocket
attacks so it was just after midnight
local time people in Tel Aviv have been
seeing in the new year and there were
these Air Raid Sirens that went off as a
barrage of rockets uh Hamas used its
longer range M90 Rockets were fired
towards Tel Aviv also were parts of
Southern Israel um now Israel's Iron
Dome missile defense system was quickly
in action there with a thuds of uh
interceptions bringing down those
Rockets but really a very Grim start to
the new year uh meanwhile in Gaza itself
in the dark we had scenes of Rescuers
scrambling in the rubble of B buildings
that had been newly flattened by Israeli
air strikes um some 50 people killed in
the latest air strikes in Gaza City
about 20 of them people who are taking
shelter of the alaka University we
understand um also in the Center and in
the south of the Gaza Strip fighting
there remains extremely
intense Julet tumer who's director of
communications for the United Nations
relief and works agency known as unra
and give us a little bit of an
impression of What It's Like on this
first day of 2024
there thanks uh so much Happy New Year
look not much difference um the the air
strikes and the bombardment continues
and with that uh crowds and crowds of
people continue to head south in search
of safety that sadly has not existed for
almost three months now across the Gaza
Strip and in in your estimation when
Israel says that it plans to well that
the conflict could continue throughout
the year what does that do to
particularly children's psyche
perhaps I think to everybody psych um
the the continuation of of the war and
any int ification and expansion is going
to mean more suffering everywhere more
loss and more grief it is time for a
ceasefire what about shelter how how are
you getting on with providing shelter
for you have been forced to move from
one place and then had to move
again yeah well umra right now is
hosting 1.4 million people across our
shelters in the in the Gaza Strip people
continue to come to these shelters and
they are overcrowded mainly in the South
so some of them have been just um forced
to live wherever they can including out
in in in the open and um they are
um they're very very um difficult
conditions across um these um these
shelters and there needs to be much more
um supplies coming in to help uh people
in in need and on that issue of supplies
there are reports of negotiations going
on behind the scenes to try to get to a
point where more can can come in can you
explain to us the logistical and the
security concerns
at the moment you have to overcome when
you do bring material in look it's a
very complex humanitarian operation in
in the Gaza Strip yes there isn't much
suppliers coming in so that's for sure
there's also the bombardment itself that
stands in in the way uh there's also um
hits against uh humanitarian facilities
and humanitarian workers including the
recent shooting that we had against one
of our convoys but there's also high
high levels of desperation of hunger
among people in in in Gaza uh which
means that every time we go and provide
Aid especially in areas that we're not
able to reach as much as we should
people just come to our trucks they take
stuff uh and they start eating it then
and there and so this is why it's
absolutely fundamental that there's a
humanitarian ceasefire we know from the
shortlived pose from a few weeks ago
that we managed to bring in more
supplies that we managed to um get into
other areas that were restricted
previously and that people finally had
some rest fite